Hello and welcome.
In this lecture on to provide an overview of how you go about implementing the visitor pattern I specifically
talk about some of the objects in the class diagram.
So here at this kind of a big class diagram there's a lot going on.
We have two separate separate pieces here we have the visitor interface and then we have concrete visitors
and then we also have the object structure of matter that's collection.
And then we have elements in each element is gonna need to have an accepted method that takes a visitor
as a parameter.
Then we have our concrete elements and the concrete elements will have that except method and take the
visitor and what it will do is it will call the visitor method up here.
So this is how you add additional functionality to an element without messing with the object structure
or the element itself really it just calls the accept and it calls the visitor accept method when the
visitors pass to it.
So let's look at the participants on the visitor up here.
It's kind of separate.
The client uses both the visitor and the collection it's going to go through the collection in each
element and then call except on it by passing a visitor into it but the visitor is used to declare the
visit operations for all types of visit to all classes.
The operations name and the signature identifies the class that sends the visit request to the visitor.
So you're going to see in each one of these visit methods there's going to be a concrete element a.
So there's gonna be a surplus of the element itself so this lets the visitor determine the concrete
class of the element being visited.
The visitor can then access the element directly through its particular interface the other participants
the concrete visitor down in here.
This implements each method declared by the visitor.
Each operation implements a fragment of the algorithm defined for the corresponding class of the object
in the structure.
This is really where the additional implementation for the object structure in each element comes in.
It provides the context for the algorithm and stored its local state.
The state often accumulates results during that reversal of the structure and we'll see that with one
of the examples that I provide where you're calculating the cost of each element the element itself.
This will have an accepted method inside of it.
It takes a visitor X an argument the entry point which enables an object to be visited by the visited
visitor object.
Right.
You're gonna go through the object structure you're going to get each element and then you're gonna
pass on a visitor to each element so that you can visit it and have the new functionality the concrete
element implements and accept method that takes a visitor as an argument the visitor object will be
passed to the object using the accepted method.
We also have the object structure remember this is the collection of the list.
It can enumerate elements control or traverse them.
It may provide a high level interface to allow the visitor to visit its elements.
It may also be a composite or collection such as a list or assets that can also be an object structure
make it a made up of other objects a composite.
The client is a consumer of the classes of the visitor design pattern and has access to the data structure
objects and can instruct them to accept the visitor to perform the appropriate processing all right.
Let's look at a sequence diagram that can show you a little more detail.
We have our object structure a list or a composite.
We have our concrete element.
All right we're gonna create.
We're gonna go through the object structure we're gonna call except on each concrete element and the
concrete element.
We're gonna pass it a visitor inside the concrete element and just go to call the right visitor method
and do some additional functionality.
We're gonna do that for all of the concrete elements and a lot of times the concrete visitors will keep
some kind of running tally of each element and then you just keep doing that over and over through the
iterations.
So the client creates a concrete visitor object and then versus the object structure either the commander
or the collection visiting each element with the visitor by calling and except on the concrete element
and passing in that visitor when element is visited it calls a visitor operation that corresponds to
its class polymorphism the element supplies itself as an argument to this operation to let the visitor
access at state so that's a lot to take in we're gonna go through a concrete example but to summarize
this pattern will create an external class that uses data in the other classes the external class is
the visitor the core of this pattern is that visitor interface it defines that visit operation for each
type of concrete element in the object structure.
So you're going to have many visit operations for each element if each if your structure has ten different
objects you're going to have ten different visit methods that take each object the concrete visitor
implements the operations defined in the visitor interface mainly the accept method it will store local
state typically as traverses the set of elements maybe to do like a calculation or total if you're summing
up the total of a price for example for many elements the element interface simply defines and accept
the method to allow the visitor run some action over that element the concrete element will implement
this accept method and it will be passed into the visitor and then call the visitor method visitor operations
are controlled in a unified manner also this pattern allows you to add operations to a composite structure
or collection without changing the structure itself.
Right we have no effect on that collection if it's an array list and it has methods for the array list
we don't affect the array list it's very easy to add operations that depend on the components of complex
objects when using this pattern you can define a new operation over an object structure simply by adding
a new visitor for that element a visitor gathers related operations and separates unrelated ones it's
all localized in the visitor unrelated sets of behavior are partitioned in their own visitor subclasses
it simplifies both the classes defining the elements and the algorithms defined in the visitors loose
coupling less dependencies easier to maintain class encapsulation may need to be compromised when visitors
are used if the existing structure is really complex the traversal mechanism becomes complex and so
you may break encapsulation you got to consider that or you may need to access some data in the visitor
the drawback of this pattern is that we should know the return type of visit methods at the time of
designing you have to know that otherwise we'll have to change the interface and all of its implementations
and that's a drawback because you kind of know a little more than you need to or you shouldn't need
to.
Another drawback is that if there are too many implementations of the visitor interface it makes it
hard to extend because it's just really really big so that's a quick overview of this pattern.
We're going to go through a concrete example.
We'll have a basically a shopping cart that can calculate cost of all the items in a structure object
structure collection.
Thank you.